“Oh gosh, is that the time? Sorry, I have to go,” the man mumbled evasively,
 as he stood up and reached for his bag.
 “What?” the woman said.
 She looked at him with uncertainty. She hadn’t heard him say it was over.
 But he had called her—his girlfriend of two years—to come out for a serious
 conversation...and now he had suddenly announced he was going to work in
 America. He was to leave immediately—in a few hours. Even without
 hearing the words, she knew now that the serious conversation was about
 breaking up. She knew now it was a mistake to have thought—to have hoped
 —that the serious conversation might have included “Will you marry me?”
 for example.
 “What?” the man responded dryly. He didn’t make eye contact with her.
 “Don’t I deserve an explanation?” she asked.
 The woman spoke using a questioning tone the man particularly disliked.
 They were in a windowless basement café.
 The lighting was provided by just six shaded lamps hanging from the
 ceiling and a single wall lamp near the entrance. A permanent sepia hue
 stained the café interior. Without a clock, there was no way to tell whether it
 was night or day.
 There were three large antique wall clocks in the café. The arms of each,
 however, showed different times. Was this intentional? Or were they just
 broken? Customers on their first visit never understood why the clocks were
 like this. Their only option was to check their watches. The man did so now.
 While looking at the time on his watch, he started rubbing his fingers above
 his right eyebrow while his lower lip began to protrude slightly.
 The woman found that expression particularly exasperating. “And why are
 you looking like that? Like I’m the one being a pain?” she blurted out.
“I’m not thinking that,” he replied sheepishly.
 “Yes you are!” she insisted.
 With bottom lip again protruding, he avoided her stare and offered no
 reply.
 The man’s passive behavior was infuriating the woman more and more.
 She scowled. “You want it to be me who says it?”
 She reached for her coffee, from which all heat had now gone. With the
 sweetest part of the experience lost, her mood plummeted further.
 The man looked at his watch again and counted back from the boarding
 time. He had to leave the café very soon. Unable to compose himself, his
 fingers had found their way back to his eyebrow.
 The sight of him so obviously hung up about the time annoyed her. She
 recklessly plunked the cup down on the table. It came down hard on the
 saucer. Clang!
 The loud noise startled him. His fingers, which had been busy caressing
 his right eyebrow, began to pull at his hair. But then, after taking a short deep
 breath, he sat back down and looked her in the face. All of a sudden, his face
 was calm.
 In fact, the man’s face had so clearly changed that the woman was quite
 taken aback. She looked down and stared at her hands clenched on her lap.
 The man who had worried about time didn’t wait for the woman to look
 up. “Now, look...” he started. No longer muttering, he sounded collected and
 together.
 But as if she was actively trying to stop his next words, the woman said,
 “Why don’t you just go?” She didn’t look up. The woman who wanted an
 explanation now refused to hear it. “It’s time for you to go, isn’t it?” she said,
 as petulantly as a child.
 The man sat motionless as if time itself had stopped. He looked at her
 perplexed, as if he didn’t understand what she meant.
 As if she was aware of how childish and unpleasant she sounded, she
 uncomfortably averted her eyes from the man and bit her lip. He rose from
 his seat, and spoke to the waitress standing behind the counter.
 “Excuse me, I’d like to pay,” he said in a small voice. The man tried to
 grab the bill from their table, but the woman’s hand was pressing down on it.
 “I’m going to stay a bit longer...so I’ll pay,” was what she meant to say,
 but he had pulled out the bill from under her hand with ease and was walking
 to the cash register. “Together, thanks.”
“Oh, I said leave it.”
 Not moving from her chair, the woman reached out her hand to the man.
 But the man refused to look at her. He pulled out a thousand-yen note from
 his wallet.
 “Keep the change,” he said as he handed the waitress the note together
 with the bill. The man turned to the woman for a split second, his face filled
 with sadness, as he picked up his bag and left.
 clang-dong
 “...and that happened one week ago,” said Fumiko Kiyokawa. Her upper
 body flopped into a heap on the table like a deflating balloon. As she
 collapsed, she somehow avoided spilling the coffee cup in front of her.
 The waitress and the customer seated at the counter who had been listening
 to Fumiko’s story looked at each other.
 Before Fumiko had finished senior high school, she had already mastered
 six languages. After graduating top of her class from Waseda University, she
 joined a major medical technology firm in Tokyo. By her second year at the
 firm, she was already directing numerous projects. She was the epitome of
 the smart, career-driven woman.
 Today, Fumiko was dressed in ordinary business attire: a white blouse and
 black skirt and jacket. Judging by her appearance, she was on her way home
 from work.
 Fumiko’s looks were better than ordinary. Blessed with well-defined
 features and petite lips, she had the face of a pop idol. Her midlength black
 hair shone and crowned her with a glowing halo. Despite her conservative
 clothes, her exceptional figure was easy to discern. Like a model from a
 fashion magazine, she was a beautiful woman who would draw anyone’s
 gaze. Yes, she was a woman who combined intelligence and beauty. But
 whether she realized this was a different matter.
 In the past, Fumiko hadn’t been one to dwell on such things—she had lived
 only for her work. Of course, this didn’t mean she had never had
 relationships. It’s just that they never had the same allure for her as work.
 “My work is my lover,” she would say. She had turned down approaches
 from many men, as though flicking away specks of dust.
The man she had been talking about was Goro Katada. Goro was a
 systems engineer, and like Fumiko, he was employed by a medical company,
 though it wasn’t a major one. He was her boyfriend—he was her boyfriend—
 and three years her junior. They had met two years ago via a client for which
 they were both doing a project.
 One week ago, Goro had asked Fumiko to meet for a “serious
 conversation.” She had arrived at the meeting place in an elegant pale-pink
 dress with a beige spring coat and white pumps, having caught the attention
 of all the men she had passed on the way there. It was a new look for
 Fumiko. She was such a workaholic that, before her relationship with Goro,
 she had owned no other clothes but suits. Suits were what she had worn on
 dates with Goro as well—after all, they mostly met after work.
 Goro had said serious conversation, and Fumiko had interpreted this as
 meaning that the conversation was going to be special. So, filled with
 expectation, she had bought an outfit especially.
 They arrived at their chosen café to find a sign on the window saying it
 was closed due to unforeseen circumstances. Fumiko and Goro were
 disappointed. The café would have been ideal for a serious conversation as
 each table was in a private booth.
 Left with no choice but to find another suitable place, they noticed a small
 sign down a quiet side street. As it was a basement café, they had no way of
 knowing what it was like inside, but Fumiko was attracted by its name,
 which came from the lyrics of a song she used to sing as a child, and they
 agreed to go in.
 Fumiko regretted her decision as soon as she peered inside. It was smaller
 than she had imagined. The café had counter and table seats but with just
 three seats at the counter and three two-seater tables, it only took nine
 customers to fill the place.
 Unless the serious conversation currently weighing on Fumiko’s mind was
 to be held in whispers, the entire thing would be overheard. Another negative
 was the way that everything appeared as in sepia owing to the few shaded
 lamps...it was not to her taste at all.
 A place for shady deals...
 That was Fumiko’s first impression of this café. She nervously made her
 way to the only empty table and sat down. There were three other customers
 and one waitress in the café. At the furthest table sat a woman in a white
 short-sleeved dress quietly reading a book. At the table closest to the
entrance sat a dull-looking man. A travel magazine was spread open on the
 table and he was jotting notes in a tiny notebook. The woman seated at the
 counter wore a bright red camisole and green leggings. A sleeveless kimono
 jacket hung on the back of her chair, and she still had curlers in her hair. She
 glanced fleetingly at Fumiko, grinning broadly as she did. At several points
 during Fumiko and Goro’s conversation, the woman made a remark to the
 waitress and let off a raucous laugh.
 On hearing Fumiko’s explanation a week later, the woman in curlers said, “I
 see...”
 Actually, she didn’t see at all—she was just following up with the
 appropriate response. Her name was Yaeko Hirai. One of the café regulars,
 she had just turned thirty and ran a nearby snack, or hostess, bar. She always
 came in for a cup of coffee before work. Her curlers were in again, but today
 she was wearing a revealing yellow tube top, a bright red miniskirt and vivid
 purple leggings. Hirai was sitting cross-legged on the counter chair while
 listening to Fumiko.
 “It was one week ago. You remember, don’t you?” Fumiko stood up and
 directed her attention across the counter to the waitress.
 “Hmm...yeah,” the waitress answered uneasily, not looking at Fumiko’s
 face.
 The waitress’s name was Kazu Tokita. Kazu was a cousin of the
 proprietor. She was waitressing while attending Tokyo University of the
 Arts. She had quite a pretty face, a pale complexion and narrow almond
shaped eyes, yet her features were not memorable. It was the type of face that
 if you glanced at it, closed your eyes and then tried to remember what you
 saw, nothing would come to mind. In a word, she was inconspicuous. She
 had no presence. She didn’t have many friends either. Not that she worried
 about it—Kazu was the sort of person who found interpersonal relationships
 rather tedious.
 “So...what about him? Where is he now?” Hirai asked, playing with the
 cup in her hand, not seeming very interested.
 “America,” Fumiko said, puffing out her cheeks.
 “So your boyfriend chose work, then?” Hirai had a gift for getting to the
 heart of the matter.
“No, that’s not right!” Fumiko protested.
 “Eh? But that is right, isn’t it? He went to America, didn’t he?” Hirai said.
 She was having a hard time understanding Fumiko.
 “Didn’t you understand when I explained?” Fumiko said vehemently.
 “What bit?”
 “I wanted to scream out don’t go but I was too proud.”
 “Not many women would admit that!” Hirai leaned back with a snicker,
 slipped off balance and nearly fell off the chair.
 Fumiko ignored Hirai’s reaction. “You understood, right?” she said,
 looking for support from Kazu.
 Kazu feigned a moment’s contemplation. “Basically you’re saying you
 didn’t want him to go to America, right?”
 Kazu was also one to get straight to the point. “Well basically, I guess...no,
 I didn’t. But...”
 “You’re a difficult one to understand,” Hirai said jovially, after seeing that
 Fumiko was struggling to reply.
 If Hirai had been in Fumiko’s place, she would have just broken down in
 tears. “Don’t go!” she would have screamed. Of course, they would have
 been crocodile tears. Tears are a woman’s weapon. That was Hirai’s
 philosophy.
 Fumiko turned to Kazu at the counter. Her eyes were glistening. “Anyway,
 I want you to transport me back to that day...that day one week ago!” she
 pleaded, totally straight-faced.
 Hirai was first to respond to the lunacy of requesting to be sent back to one
 week ago. “Back in time, she says...” She looked to Kazu with raised
 eyebrows.
 Looking uncomfortable, Kazu simply muttered, “Oh...” and didn’t add
 anything further.
 Several years had passed since the café had its moment of fame because of
 an urban legend that claimed it could transport people back to the past.
 Uninterested in that kind of thing, Fumiko had allowed it to fade from her
 memory. Visiting a week ago was complete happenstance. But last night, she
 had watched a variety program on TV. In the introduction, the host spoke
 about “urban legends,” and like a bolt of lightning striking inside her head,
 she remembered the café. The café that transports you back in time. It was
 an incomplete memory, but she remembered that key phrase clearly.
If I return to the past, I might be able to set things right. I might be able
 to have a conversation with Goro once more. She replayed this fanciful
 wish over and over in her mind. She became obsessed and lost any ability to
 make a levelheaded judgement.
 The next morning she went to work, completely forgetting to eat breakfast.
 There, her mind was not on the job. She sat there, obsessed with the passing
 time. I just want to make sure. She wanted to find out either way as soon as
 possible. Her day at work was a long string of careless mistakes. So
 sporadic was her attention that a colleague asked if she was okay. By the end
 of the day, she had reached peak scatterbrain.
 It took her thirty minutes to get from her company to the café by train. She
 pretty much ran the last stretch from the station. Entering the café feeling
 quite breathless, she’d walked up to Kazu.
 “Please send me back to the past!” she’d pleaded before Kazu could even
 finish saying, Hello, welcome.
 Her excitement had continued in that vein until she had finished her
 explanation. But now, looking at the reaction of the two women, she felt ill at
 ease.
 Hirai just continued to stare at her with a smirk on her face, while Kazu
 wore a deadpan expression and avoided all eye contact.
 If it was true about going back in time, I guess the place would be
 thronging with people, Fumiko thought to herself. But the only people in this
 café were the woman in the white dress, the man with his travel magazine,
 and Hirai and Kazu—the same faces that were here a week ago.
 “It’s possible to go back, right?” she asked, uneasily.
 It may have been prudent to begin with this question. But it was pointless
 to realize that now.
 “Well, is it or not?” she asked, staring directly at Kazu on the other side of
 the counter.
 “Hmm. Ah...” Kazu replied.
 Fumiko’s eyes once again lit up. She was not hearing a no.
 An air of excitement started to surround her. “Please send me back!”
 She pleaded so energetically that she seemed about to leap over the
 counter.
 “You want to go back and do what?” asked Hirai coolly, between sips of
 her tepid coffee.
 “I’d make amends.” Her face was serious.
“I see...” said Hirai with a shrug.
 “Please!” She spoke louder; the word reverberated throughout the café.
 It was only recently that the idea of marrying Goro had occurred to her.
 She was turning twenty-eight this year, and she had been interrogated on
 many occasions by her persistent parents, who lived in Hakodate—Still not
 thinking of marriage? Haven’t you met any nice men? and so forth. Her
 parents’ nagging had grown more intense since her twenty-five-year-old
 sister got married the year before. Now it had reached the point where she
 was receiving weekly emails. Aside from her younger sister, Fumiko also
 had a twenty-three-year-old brother. He had married a girl from their
 hometown following a surprise pregnancy, leaving only Fumiko single.
 Fumiko had felt no rush, but after her little sister got married, her mind-set
 had changed just a little. She had started to think getting married might be
 okay if it was to Goro.
 Hirai plucked a cigarette from her leopard-print pouch. “Perhaps you’d
 best explain it to her properly...don’t you think?” she said in a businesslike
 manner to Kazu while lighting up.
 “It seems like I should,” Kazu replied in her toneless voice as she walked
 around the counter and stood before Fumiko.
 She looked at her with a soft kindness in her eyes as if she were consoling
 a crying child.
 “Look. I want you to listen, and listen carefully. Okay?”
 “What?” Fumiko’s body tensed up.
 “You can go back. It’s true...you can go back, but...”
 “But...?”
 “When you go back, no matter how hard you try, the present won’t
 change.”
 The present won’t change. This was something Fumiko was totally
 unprepared for—something she couldn’t take in. “Huh?” she said loudly
 without thinking.
 Kazu calmly continued. “Even if you go back to the past and tell your...um,
 boyfriend who went to America how you feel...”
 “Even if I tell him how I feel?”
 “The present won’t change.”
 “What?” Fumiko desperately covered her ears.
 But Kazu casually went on to say the words that Fumiko least wanted to
 hear. “It won’t change the fact that he’s gone to America.”
A trembling sensation swept through Fumiko’s entire body.
 Yet with what seemed like a ruthless disregard for her feelings, Kazu
 continued with her explanation.
 “Even if you return to the past, reveal your feelings, and ask him not to go,
 it won’t change the present.”
 Fumiko reacted impulsively to Kazu’s cold hard words. “That sort of
 defeats the purpose, don’t you think?” she said defiantly.
 “Easy now...let’s not shoot the messenger,” Hirai said. She took a drag of
 her cigarette, and seemed unsurprised by Fumiko’s reaction.
 “Why?” Fumiko asked Kazu, her eyes begging for answers.
 “Why? I’ll tell you why,” Kazu began. “Because that’s the rule.” There
 tends to be, in any movie or novel about time travel, some rule saying, Don’t
 go meddling in anything that is going to change the present. For example,
 going back and preventing your parents marrying or meeting would erase the
 circumstances of your birth and cause your present self to vanish.
 This had been the standard state of affairs in most time-travel stories that
 Fumiko knew, so she believed in the rule: If you change the past, you do
 change the present. On that basis, she wanted to return to the past and have
 the chance to do it afresh. Alas, it was a dream that was not to be.
 She wanted a convincing explanation for the existence of this unbelievable
 rule, that there is nothing you can do while in the past that will change the
 present. The only explanation that Kazu would give was to say, Because
 that’s the rule. Was she trying to tease her in a friendly way, by not telling
 her the reason? Or was it a difficult concept that she was unable to explain?
 Or perhaps she didn’t understand the reason either, as her casual expression
 seemed to suggest.
 Hirai seemed to be relishing the sight of Fumiko’s expression. “Tough
 luck,” she said, exhaling a plume of smoke with obvious pleasure.
 She had drafted that line earlier when Fumiko had begun her explanation,
 and had been waiting to deliver it ever since.
 “But...why?” Fumiko felt the energy drain from her body.
 As she let herself slouch limply in her chair, a vivid recollection came to
 her. She had read an article on this café in a magazine. The article had the
 headline “Uncovering Truth Behind ‘Time-Traveling Café’ Made Famous by
 Urban Legend.” The gist of the article was as follows.
 The café’s name was Funiculi Funicula. It had become famous, with long
 queues each day, on account of the time-traveling. But it wasn’t possible to
find anyone who had actually gone back in time, because of the extremely
 annoying rules that had to be followed. The first rule was: The only people
 you can meet while in the past are those who have visited the café. This
 would usually defeat the purpose of going back. Another rule was: There is
 nothing you can do while in the past that will change the present. The café
 was asked why that rule existed, but their only comment was that they didn’t
 know.
 As the author of the article was unable to find anyone who had actually
 visited the past, whether or not it was actually possible to go back in time
 remained a mystery. Even supposing it was possible, the sticky point of not
 being able to change the present certainly made the whole idea seem
 pointless.
 The article concluded by stating that it certainly made an interesting urban
 legend, but it was difficult to see why the legend existed. As a postscript, the
 article also mentioned there were apparently other rules that had to be
 followed but it was unclear what these were.
 Fumiko’s attention returned to the café. Hirai seated herself opposite her at
 the table and proceeded to merrily explain the other rules. With her head and
 shoulders still sprawled on the table, Fumiko fixed her eyes on the sugar pot,
 wondering why the café didn’t use sugar cubes, and quietly listened.
 “It’s not just those rules. There’s only one seat that allows you to go back
 in time, okay? And, while in the past, you can’t move from that seat,” Hirai
 said. “What else was there?” she asked Kazu, as she moved her count to her
 fifth finger.
 “There’s a time limit,” Kazu said, keeping her eyes on the glass she was
 polishing. She mentioned it like an afterthought, as if she were merely talking
 to herself.
 Fumiko raised her head in reaction to this news. “A time limit?”
 Kazu showed a slight smile, and nodded.
 Hirai gave the table a tap. “Frankly, after hearing just these rules, barely
 anyone still wants to return to the past,” she said, apparently enjoying herself.
 And she was indeed taking great delight in observing Fumiko. “It’s been a
 long time since we’ve seen a customer like you—someone totally set in your
 delusion of wanting to go back to the past.”
 “Hirai...” Kazu said sternly.
 “Life doesn’t get served to you on a plate. Why don’t you just give up?”
 Hirai blurted out. She looked ready to continue her tirade.
“Hirai...” Kazu repeated, this time with a bit more emphasis.
 “No. No, I think it’s best to clearly put it out there, huh?”
 Then Hirai guffawed loudly.
 The words were all too much for Fumiko. Her strength had entirely
 drained from her body, and again she collapsed onto the table.
 Then, from across the room... “Can I have a refill, please?” said the man
 sitting at the table closest to the entrance with his travel magazine opened in
 front of him.
 “Okay,” Kazu called back.
 clang-dong
 A woman had entered the café alone. She was wearing a beige cardigan
 over a pale aqua shirt-dress and crimson trainers, and carrying a white
 canvas bag. Her eyes were round and sparkling like a little girl’s.
 “Hello.” Kazu’s voice rang through the café.
 “Hi, Kazu.”
 “Sis! Hi there!”
 Kazu called the woman sis, but actually she was Kazu’s cousin’s wife, Kei
 Tokita.
 “Looks like the cherry blossoms have had it.” Kei smiled, showing no
 grief at their passing.
 “Yes, the trees are pretty bare now.” Kazu’s tone was polite, but not the
 same polite, civil tone she had used when speaking to Fumiko. Her tone now
 sounded softer and more like a dove.
 “Good evening,” said Hirai as she moved from the seat at Fumiko’s table
 to the counter, appearing to be no longer interested in laughing at Fumiko’s
 misfortune. “Where have you been?”
 “Hospital.”
 “What for? Just a routine checkup?”
 “Yes.”
 “You’ve got a bit of color in your face today.”
 “Yes, I feel good.”
 Glancing over at Fumiko still limp at the table, Kei tilted her head
 inquisitively. Hirai gave a slight nod, and with that, Kei disappeared behind
 the counter and into the dark room.
clang-dong
 Soon after Kei had disappeared, a large man poked his head through the
 doorway, bowing it to stop it from banging into the door frame. He was
 wearing a light jacket over his chef’s uniform of white shirt and black
 trousers. A huge bundle of keys was jingling in his right hand. He was
 Nagare Tokita, the owner of the café.
 “Good evening,” Kazu greeted him.
 Nagare nodded in response and turned his eyes to the man with the
 magazine at the table closest to the entrance.
 Kazu went into the kitchen to bring a refill for the empty coffee cup that
 Hirai was silently holding up, while Hirai, leaning with one elbow on the
 counter, quietly observed Nagare.
 Nagare was standing in front of the man who was engrossed in his
 magazine. “Fusagi,” he said gently.
 For a moment, the man called Fusagi didn’t react, as if it hadn’t registered
 that his name had been called. Then he looked up slowly.
 Nagare nodded politely. “Hello.”
 “Oh, hello,” Fusagi said, with a blank expression. He immediately
 returned to his magazine. For a moment, Nagare continued to stand there
 looking at him.
 “Kazu,” he called to the kitchen.
 Kazu poked her face out from the kitchen. “What is it?”
 “Ring Kohtake for me, please.”
 The request puzzled Kazu for a while.
 “Yes, because she’s been looking,” Nagare said, as he turned back to
 Fusagi.
 Kazu understood what he meant. “Oh... Right,” she replied.
 After giving Hirai a refill, she disappeared into the back room to make the
 phone call.
 Nagare cast a sideways glance at Fumiko slumped over the table as he
 walked behind the counter and took a glass from the shelf. He pulled out a
 carton of orange juice from the fridge under the counter, poured it
 nonchalantly into the glass, and gulped it down.
 He took the glass into the kitchen to wash it. A moment later, there was the
 sound of fingernails tapping on the counter.
He poked his head out of the kitchen to see what was happening.
 Hirai made a small beckoning gesture. With dripping hands, he
 approached quietly. She leaned a little over the counter.
 “How was it?” she whispered to him as he searched for some paper
 towels.
 “Hmm...” he mumbled, ambiguously. Maybe it was somehow an answer to
 the question, or maybe it was just a frustrated grunt while looking for the
 elusive paper towel. Hirai lowered her voice further.
 “How were the test results?”
 Not replying to this question, Nagare briefly scratched the top of his nose.
 “They were bad?” Hirai asked more somberly. Nagare’s expression did
 not falter.
 “After looking at the results, they decided she doesn’t need to be
 hospitalized,” he explained in a low murmur, almost as if he was talking to
 himself.
 Hirai gave a quiet sigh. “I see...” she said and glanced toward the back
 room where Kei was.
 Kei was born with a weak heart. Throughout her life, she had been in and
 out of hospital. Nevertheless, having been blessed all her life with a friendly
 and carefree disposition, she could always manage a smile, no matter how
 bad her condition got. Hirai was all too familiar with that aspect of her. That
 was why she checked with Nagare.
 Nagare had finally located the paper towels and was wiping his hands.
 “And how are things with you, Hirai? Are they okay?”
 Hirai wasn’t sure what Nagare was asking about. Her eyes widened.
 “What do you mean?”
 “Your sister has been coming to see you a fair bit, hasn’t she?”
 “Ah. I guess she has,” Hirai answered while she looked around the café.
 “Your parents run a travelers’ inn, right?”
 “Yeah, that’s right.”
 Nagare didn’t have much detail, but he had heard that as a result of Hirai
 having left the family home, her sister had taken over running the inn.
 “It must be tough for your sister, alone like that.”
 “Nah, she’s coping all right. My sister’s got the right head for handling that
 kind of work.”
 “But still...”
 “It’s been too long. I can’t go home now,” Hirai snapped.
She pulled out a large purse from her leopard-skin satchel. It was so big, it
 looked more like a dictionary than a purse. Her purse jingled as she began
 foraging among the coins.
 “Why not?”
 “Even if I went home, I wouldn’t be any help,” she said, tilting her head
 with a silly smile.
 “But...”
 “Anyway, thanks for the coffee. I have to go,” she said, cutting Nagare
 short. She put the coffee money on the counter, then got up and walked out of
 the door, as if she was running away from the conversation.
 clang-dong
 While picking up the coins that Hirai had left, Nagare glanced at Fumiko
 slumped on the table. But it was just a glance. He didn’t seem very interested
 in who this woman was, facedown on the table. He collected the coins in his
 large hands and playfully jangled them.
 “Hey, bro.” Kazu’s face appeared as she called out from the back room.
 Kazu called Nagare “bro” despite him being her cousin, not her brother.
 “What?”
 “Sis is calling you.”
 Nagare looked around the café. “Okay, coming.” He casually placed the
 coins in Kazu’s hand.
 “Kohtake said she’ll come right away,” Kazu said.
 Nagare received the news with a nod. “Look after the café, could you?”
 He disappeared into the back room.
 “Okay,” she said.
 The only people in the café, though, were the woman reading a novel,
 Fumiko, still slumped over the table, and Fusagi, who was taking notes from
 the magazine spread open in front of him. After depositing the coins in the
 cash register, Kazu cleared away the coffee cup left by Hirai. One of the
 café’s three old wall clocks sounded five deep resonating gongs.
 “Coffee, please.”
 Fusagi called over to Kazu behind the counter, holding up his coffee cup as
 he spoke. He had yet to receive the refill he had asked for.
“Oh...right!” exclaimed Kazu, realizing, and hurried back to the kitchen.
 She came out again holding a transparent glass carafe filled with coffee.
 “Even that would be okay,” muttered Fumiko.
 While Kazu was pouring a refill for Fusagi, Fumiko’s presence in the
 corner of her vision attracted her attention.
 Fumiko sat upright. “Even that I can live with. It’s okay if nothing changes.
 Things can stay as they are.” She got up and went over to Kazu, invading her
 space a little. Gently placing a coffee cup in front of Fusagi, Kazu took a
 couple of steps back. Her brow settled into a frown.
 “Right...ah,” she said.
 Fumiko drew in even closer. “So transport me...to one week ago!”
 It was as if her doubts had been washed away. No longer was there any
 hint of uncertainty in her speech. If anything, there was just excitement at the
 chance of returning to the past. Her nostrils flared with enthusiasm.
 “Um...but—”
 Becoming uncomfortable with Fumiko’s overbearing attitude, Kazu darted
 around her and moved back behind the counter as if seeking refuge.
 “There’s one more important rule,” she began.
 In response to these words, Fumiko’s eyebrows rose considerably. “What?
 There are more rules?”
 “You can’t meet people who haven’t visited this café. The present cannot
 change. There is only one seat that takes you to the past, and you cannot move
 from it. Then, there is the time limit.” As Kazu ran through each rule, Fumiko
 counted on her fingers and her anger at them grew.
 “This one is probably the most problematic.”
 Fumiko was already extremely annoyed with the rules she knew. The news
 of a further, most problematic rule threatened to snap her heart in two.
 Nevertheless, she bit her lip and nodded at Kazu, as if to emphasize her
 resolve.
 “If that’s the case, then fine, so be it. Go on, tell me,” she said, folding her
 arms.
 Kazu drew a short breath as if to say, I will then, and vanished into the
 kitchen, to put away the glass carafe she had been holding.
Left standing there alone, Fumiko took a deep breath to center herself. Her
 initial aim had been to return to the past to somehow stop Goro going to
 America.
 Stopping him from going sounded bad, but if she confessed, I don’t want
 you to go, Goro might give up the idea of leaving. If things went well, they
 might end up never splitting up. At any rate, the initial reason for wanting to
 go back to the past was to change the present.
 But if it wasn’t possible to change the present, then Goro going to America
 and them splitting up were also unchangeable. Regardless, Fumiko still
 yearned passionately to return to the past—all she wanted to do was to go
 back and see. Her entire objective was centered on the actual act of going
 back. Her heart was set on experiencing this fantastical phenomenon.
 She didn’t know whether time travel was a good thing or a bad thing. It
 might be a good thing, and how could it be a bad thing? she told herself.
 After she exhaled a deep breath, Kazu returned. Fumiko’s face stiffened like
 a defendant awaiting the court’s decision. Kazu stood behind the counter.
 “It is only possible to go back in time when seated at a particular seat in
 this café,” she said again. Fumiko reacted instantly.
 “Which one? Where should I sit?” She looked around the café so rapidly
 she almost made a whooshing sound as she turned her head from side to side.
 Ignoring her reaction, Kazu turned her head and looked fixedly at the
 woman in the white dress.
 Fumiko followed her constant gaze. “That seat,” Kazu said quietly.
 “That one? The one the woman’s sitting in?” Fumiko whispered across the
 counter while keeping her eyes glued on the woman in the dress.
 “Yes,” Kazu answered simply.
 Yet even before she had finished hearing that short reply, Fumiko was
 already walking up to the woman in the white dress.
 She was a woman who gave the impression that fortune had passed her by.
 Her white, almost translucent skin contrasted starkly with her long black hair.
 It may have been spring, but the weather was definitely still chilly on bare
 skin. Yet the woman was wearing short sleeves, and there was no sign she
 had a jacket with her. Fumiko was getting the feeling that something was not
 right. But now was not the time to be concerned with such things.
 Fumiko spoke to the woman.
 “Er, excuse me, would you mind awfully if we swapped seats?” she asked,
 holding back her impatience. She thought she had spoken politely and without
rudeness; yet the woman in the dress did not react. It was as if she had not
 even heard her. Fumiko felt a little put out by this. On some rare occasions a
 person can be so engrossed in a book she does not hear the surrounding
 voices and sounds. Fumiko assumed that was the case here.
 She tried again.
 “Hello?... Can you hear me?”
 Nothing.
 “You’re wasting your time.”
 The voice came unexpectedly from behind Fumiko. It was Kazu. It took
 Fumiko a while to work out what she meant by it.
 I only wanted her to give me the seat. Why was I wasting my time? Was I
 wasting my time asking politely? Wait. Is this another rule? Do I have to
 clear this other rule first? If that’s the case, I think she could say
 something a bit more helpful than “You’re wasting your time...”
 Such were the thoughts that were running through her mind. Yet in the end
 she asked a simple question.
 “Why?” she asked Kazu with a look of childlike innocence.
 Kazu looked directly into her eyes.
 “Because that woman...is a ghost,” she responded sternly. She sounded
 deadly serious and like she was telling the absolute truth.
 Once again, Fumiko’s head was filled with racing thoughts. Ghost? A real
 moaning shrieking ghost? The sort that appears under a weeping willow in
 the summer? The girl just said it so casually—maybe I misheard? But what
 sounds like “is a ghost”?
 Fumiko’s head was awash with many confusing thoughts. “Ghost?”
 “Yes.”
 “You’re messing with me.”
 “No, honestly, she’s a ghost.”
 Fumiko was bewildered. She was happy not to get stuck on the question of
 whether or not ghosts actually exist. But what she couldn’t accept was the
 possibility that the woman in the dress was a ghost. She seemed far too real.
 “Look, I can clearly...”
 “See her.” Kazu finished her sentence as if she knew what Fumiko was
 going to say.
 Fumiko was confused. “But...”
 Without thinking, she stretched her hand out toward the woman’s shoulder.
 Just as she was about to touch the woman in the dress, Kazu said, “You can
touch her.”
 Again, Kazu had a ready reply. Fumiko placed her hand on the woman’s
 shoulder as if to confirm that she could be touched. Without a doubt, she
 could feel the woman’s shoulder and the material of the dress covering her
 soft skin. She couldn’t believe that this was a ghost.
 She gently removed her hand. Then once again she placed her hand on the
 woman’s shoulder. She turned to Kazu as if to say, I can clearly touch her,
 calling this person a ghost is crazy!
 But Kazu’s face remained cool and composed. “She’s a ghost.”
 “Really? A ghost?”
 Fumiko poked her head toward the woman and looked her squarely in the
 face, quite rudely.
 “Yes,” Kazu replied, with utmost certainty.
 “No way. I just can’t believe it.”
 If Fumiko could see her but was unable to touch her, then she could have
 accepted it. But this was not the case. She could touch the woman, the woman
 had legs. The title of the book the woman was reading was one she had never
 heard of. Nevertheless, it was a normal book—one that you could buy almost
 anywhere. This led Fumiko to come up with a theory.
 You can’t really go back to the past. This café can’t really take you back. It
 was all just a ploy to get people to come. Take the countless number of
 annoying rules, for example. These are just the first hurdles to encourage
 customers wanting to return to the past to give up. If the customer passes
 those first hurdles, then this must be the next hurdle for those customers who
 still want to go back in time. They mention a ghost to frighten the person into
 giving up on the idea. The woman in the dress is just for show. She’s
 pretending to be a ghost.
 Fumiko was beginning to feel quite stubborn.
 If it’s all a lie, then so be it. But I’m not going to be fooled by this lie.
 Fumiko addressed the woman in the dress politely. “Look, it will only be
 for a short while. Please would you kindly allow me to sit there.”
 But it was as if her words hadn’t reached the woman’s ears.
 She continued reading without the slightest reaction.
 Being totally ignored like this darkened Fumiko’s mood.
 She grabbed the woman’s upper arm.
 “Stop! You mustn’t do that!” warned Kazu loudly.
 “Hey! Stop just ignoring me!”
Fumiko tried to forcefully drag the woman in the dress from her seat.
 And then it happened... The woman in the dress’s eyes widened and she
 glared at Fumiko fiercely.
 She felt as if the weight of her body had increased many times over. It felt
 as if dozens of heavy blankets had fallen over her. The light in the café
 dimmed to the brightness of candlelight. An unworldly wailing began to
 reverberate through the café.
 She was paralyzed. Unable to move a muscle, she dropped to her knees
 and then fell to a crawling position.
 “Ugh! What’s happening? What’s happening?”
 She had absolutely no idea what was going on. Kazu, in a smug, told-you
so kind of way, simply said, “She cursed you.”
 When Fumiko heard curse, she didn’t understand at first. “Huh?” she
 asked with a groan.
 Unable to withstand this invisible force that seemed to be getting stronger,
 Fumiko was now lying facedown on the floor.
 “What? What is this? What’s going on?”
 “It’s a curse. You went ahead and did what you did, and she cursed you,”
 said Kazu as she slipped back into the kitchen, leaving Fumiko sprawled on
 the floor.
 Lying facedown, Fumiko didn’t see Kazu go, but with one ear firmly
 against the floor, she clearly heard Kazu leave by the sound of her fading
 footsteps. Fumiko’s fear was so intense, she shivered as if icy water had
 been poured over her entire body.
 “You’ve got to be kidding. Look at me! What can I do?” There was no
 response. Fumiko started shuddering.
 The woman in the dress was still glaring at Fumiko with a terrifying
 expression. She seemed a completely different person to the woman who had
 been calmly reading her book just moments earlier.
 “Help me! Please help me!” Fumiko yelled out to the kitchen.
 Kazu calmly returned. Fumiko could not see this, but Kazu was holding a
 glass carafe of coffee in her hand. Fumiko heard her footsteps coming toward
 her, but she had no idea what was happening—first the rules, then the ghost,
 and now the curse. It was all utterly bewildering.
 Kazu hadn’t even given her any indication whether she meant to help her
 or not. Fumiko was on the verge of yelling Help! at the top of her lungs.
 But right at that moment...
“Would you care for some more coffee?” Fumiko heard Kazu asking
 nonchalantly.
 Fumiko was incensed. Ignoring her in her moment of need, Kazu was not
 only not helping, she was offering the woman in the dress some more coffee.
 Fumiko was dumbfounded. I was clearly told that she was a ghost, and it
 was wrong of me not to believe it. It was also wrong of me to grab on to the
 woman’s arm and try to forcefully remove her from her chair. But even
 though I’ve been yelling “Help me!” the girl has just been ignoring me
 and now she is breezily asking that woman if she wants more coffee! Why
 would a ghost be wanting another coffee!
 “You’ve got to be kidding!” was all that Fumiko was able to vocalize,
 however.
 But without hesitation, “Yes, please,” an eerily ethereal voice replied.
 It was the woman in the dress who had spoken. Suddenly, Fumiko’s body
 felt lighter.
 “Ah...”
 The curse had been lifted. Fumiko, unencumbered and panting, rose up on
 her knees and glared at Kazu.
 Kazu returned her gaze, as if to ask, You have something to say? and
 shrugged with indifference. The woman in the dress took a sip from her
 freshly poured coffee and then returned quietly to her book.
 Acting as if nothing out of the ordinary had happened, Kazu disappeared
 back to the kitchen to return the carafe. Fumiko once more reached her hand
 out to touch the shoulder of that terrifying woman in the dress. Her fingers
 could feel her. The woman is here. She exists.
 Unable to understand such weird events, Fumiko was completely
 confused. She had experienced the whole thing—she couldn’t dispute that.
 Her body had been pushed down by an invisible force. Though she could not
 make sense of things in her head, her heart had already fathomed the situation
 well enough to be pumping gallons of blood through her body.
 She stood up and walked toward the counter, feeling quite dizzy. By the
 time she had made her way there, Kazu had returned from the kitchen.
 “Is she really a ghost?” Fumiko asked Kazu.
 “Yes,” was Kazu’s only reply. She had started topping up the sugar pot
 with sugar.
 So, this totally impossible thing happened... Fumiko once more began to
 hypothesize. If the ghost...and the curse...really happened, then what they
say about going back in time might also really be true!
 Experiencing the curse had convinced Fumiko that you can go back. But
 there was a problem.
 It was that rule—in order to go back to the past, you have to sit in one
 particular seat. Sitting in that one particular seat, however, is a ghost.
 Anything I say doesn’t get through to her. And when I tried to sit there
 forcefully, she cursed me. What am I meant to do?
 “You just have to wait,” Kazu said, as if she could hear Fumiko’s thoughts.
 “What do you mean?”
 “Every day, there is just one moment when she goes to the bathroom.”
 “A ghost needs to go to the bathroom?”
 “While she’s gone, you can sit there.”
 Fumiko stared hard into Kazu’s eyes. She gave a small nod. That seemed
 to be the only solution. As to Fumiko’s question of whether ghosts go to the
 bathroom, Kazu was unsure of whether it was genuine curiosity or meant for
 comedic effect and decided to ignore it with a deadpan expression.
 Fumiko drew a deep breath. A moment ago she had been grasping at
 straws. Now she had a piece of straw in her hand, and she wasn’t going to let
 it go. She once had read a story about a man who traded his way up from one
 piece of straw to become a millionaire. If she was to become a straw
 millionaire, she mustn’t waste that straw.
 “Okay... I’ll wait. I’ll wait!”
 “Fine, but you should know that she doesn’t differentiate between day and
 night.”
 “Yes. Okay, I’ll wait,” Fumiko said, desperately clutching her straw.
 “What time do you close?”
 “Regular hours are until eight p.m. But if you decide you want to wait, you
 can wait for as long as it takes.”
 “Thank you!”
 Fumiko sat down at the middle of the three tables. She sat with her chair
 facing the woman in the dress. She folded her arms and breathed hard through
 her nose.
 “I’m going to get that seat!” she announced, glaring at the woman in the
 dress. The woman in the dress was reading her book, as always.
 Kazu gave a little sigh.
clang-dong
 “Hello. Good evening!” said Kazu, delivering her standard greeting.
 “Kohtake!”
 Standing in the open doorway was a woman. She looked like she might be
 a little over forty.
 Kohtake was wearing a navy blue cardigan over a nurse’s uniform and
 carrying a plain shoulder bag. Breathing a little heavily as if she had been
 running, she held her hand on her chest as if to steady her breath.
 “Thanks for calling,” she said. She spoke quickly.
 Kazu nodded with a smile and disappeared into the kitchen. Kohtake took
 two or three steps toward the table closest to the entrance and stood next to
 the man called Fusagi. He didn’t seem to notice her at all.
 “Fusagi,” Kohtake said in a gentle tone that one would normally reserve
 for a child.
 At first, Fusagi showed no reaction, as if he hadn’t noticed that she had
 called him. But noticing her in his peripheral vision, he turned to her with a
 vacant stare.
 “Kohtake,” he muttered.
 “Yes. It’s me,” Kohtake said with clear articulation. “What are you doing
 here?”
 “I had some time off and I thought I might have a cup of coffee.”
 “Oh...okay,” Fusagi said.
 He once more cast his eyes down to his magazine. Kohtake, continuing to
 look at him, sat casually down in the seat opposite. He didn’t react to this
 and instead turned the page of his magazine.
 “I hear you’ve been coming here a lot lately,” Kohtake said while studying
 every nook and cranny of the café like a customer who was visiting for the
 first time.
 “Yeah,” Fusagi said simply.
 “So you’ve taken a liking to this place?”
 “Oh...not particularly,” he said, in a way that clearly showed that he had
 indeed taken a liking to the place. A slight smile formed on his lips.
 “I’m waiting,” he whispered.
 “What are you waiting for?”
He turned and looked over at the seat where the woman in the dress was
 sitting.
 “For her to leave that seat,” he answered. His face betrayed a boyish
 glimmer.
 Fumiko hadn’t particularly been eavesdropping but the café was small.
 “What!” she exclaimed in surprise at learning that Fusagi was likewise
 waiting for the woman in the dress to go to the bathroom so he could return to
 the past.
 Hearing Fumiko’s voice, Kohtake turned to look at her, but Fusagi paid no
 attention to her himself.
 “Is that so?” Kohtake asked.
 “Yeah,” was all that Fusagi said in reply as he took a sip of his coffee.
 Fumiko was shaken. Please don’t let me have competition.
 After all...she instantly realized that it was her who was at a disadvantage
 should they both have the same objective. When she had entered the café,
 Fusagi was already there. Since he was here first, it was his turn first. As a
 matter of common courtesy, she was not going to jump the queue. The woman
 in the dress only went to the bathroom once a day. Therefore there was only
 one chance to sit in the seat each day.
 Fumiko wanted to go back in time right away. She was unable to bear the
 thought that she might have to wait an extra day, and was unable to hide her
 agitation at this unexpected development. She leaned sideways and cocked
 her ear to make sure that Fusagi really did intend to return to the past.
 “Did you get to sit there today?” Kohtake asked.
 “Not today.”
 “Oh, you couldn’t sit there?”
 “Yeah...no.”
 Their conversation was doing nothing to allay her worst fears. Fumiko
 scrunched up her face.
 “Fusagi, what do you want to do when you go back in time?”
 There was no mistaking—Fusagi was waiting for the woman in the dress
 to go to the bathroom. This revelation was a huge blow for Fumiko.
 Disappointment spread across her face and she collapsed onto the table
 again. The devastating conversation continued.
 “Something you want to fix?”
 “Ah, well.” Fusagi thought for a moment. “That’s my secret,” he said. He
 gave a self-satisfied, childish grin.
“Your secret?”
 “Yeah.”
 Even though Fusagi had said it was a secret, Kohtake smiled as if
 something was pleasing. Then she peered over to the woman in the dress.
 “But it doesn’t look like she’ll be going to the bathroom today, does it?”
 Fumiko hadn’t been expecting to hear that. She reacted automatically,
 lifting her head from the table. Her movement so swift it was almost audible.
 Is it possible that the woman might not even go to the bathroom? Kazu said
 that she goes once a day. But as that woman said, perhaps the woman in
 the dress has already made today’s trip... No, that can’t be the case. I really
 hope that’s not the case.
 Praying that was not the case, Fumiko waited in trepidation for what
 Fusagi would say next.
 “Perhaps that’s right,” he said, readily conceding this point. No way!
 Fumiko’s mouth opened as if to let out a shriek, but she was dumbfounded by
 the shock. Why isn’t the woman in the dress going to go to the bathroom?
 What does the woman called Kohtake know? She was desperate for
 answers.
 Yet she sensed that she shouldn’t interrupt the conversation. She had
 always believed that reading the situation was important, and right now,
 Kohtake’s entire body language was saying, Stay out of it! Exactly what she
 was meant to stay out of was not clear to her. But there was definitely
 something happening there—and outsiders weren’t welcome.
 “So...how about we leave?” Kohtake said in a gentle, coaxing way.
 “Huh?”
 Her big chance was back. Setting aside the question of whether the woman
 in the dress had already gone to the bathroom, if Fusagi left, at least she
 could be rid of her rival.
 When Kohtake had suggested that the woman in the dress probably
 wouldn’t be moving today, Fusagi had simply agreed, Perhaps that’s right.
 He said perhaps. It is equally plausible that he could have meant, At any
 rate, I’m waiting to see. If it was her, Fumiko would definitely wait. She
 concentrated all of her mental reserves while she waited for his reply, trying
 not to appear too eager. It was as if her entire body had become her ears.
 He glanced over at the woman in the dress, then paused, deep in thought.
 “Sure, okay,” he replied.
As it was such a clear and simple reply, Fumiko’s heart didn’t skip a beat.
 But even so, her excitement soared and she felt her heart beating fast.
 “Right then. We’ll leave when you finish your cup,” said Kohtake, looking
 at the half-empty coffee cup.
 Fusagi now seemed to be only thinking about leaving. “No, it’s okay. It’s
 gone cold anyhow,” he said as he clumsily packed away his magazine,
 notebook, and pencil and got up from his seat.
 Putting on a jacket with fleecy sleeves—a type often worn by construction
 workers—he made his way to the till. With impeccable timing, Kazu came
 back out of the kitchen. Fusagi passed her the coffee bill.
 “What do I owe?” he asked.
 Kazu entered the amount using the clunky keys of the ancient cash register.
 Meanwhile, Fusagi was checking his second bag, his shirt pocket, his back
 pocket, and every other place he could think...
 “That’s odd, my wallet...” he muttered.
 It seemed he had come to the café without his wallet. After looking in the
 same places again and again, he still couldn’t find it. He looked visibly
 upset, close to tears, even.
 Then Kohtake unexpectedly produced a wallet, and held it in front of him.
 “Here.”
 It was a well-worn men’s leather wallet—folded in half, bulging with
 what appeared to be a wad of receipts. He paused for a moment, staring at
 the wallet presented before him. He seemed genuinely in a daze. Finally, he
 took the wallet offered to him without a word.
 “How much?” he asked while furrowing into the coin purse as if it was a
 familiar habit.
 Kohtake said nothing. She simply stood behind Fusagi, watching over him
 as he went about paying. “Three hundred and eighty yen,” Kazu said.
 Fusagi pulled out one coin and handed it to Kazu.
 “Okay, here’s five hundred yen...”
 Kazu took the money, entered it into the cash register.
 Cha-ching...
 She pulled the change from the drawer.
 “That’s one hundred and twenty yen change.” Kazu carefully placed the
 change and receipt in Fusagi’s hand.
 “Thank you for the coffee,” he said, putting the change carefully in his
 wallet. He stowed the wallet in his bag, having seemingly forgotten that
Kohtake was there, and he quickly headed for the door.
 clang-dong
 Kohtake seemed not in the least bothered by his attitude. “Thank you,” she
 said simply, and followed on after him.
 clang-dong
 “They were rather odd,” Fumiko muttered.
 Kazu cleared the table where Fusagi had sat and disappeared once more
 into the kitchen.
 The sudden appearance of a rival had upset Fumiko, but now that only she
 and the woman in the dress remained, she felt sure that victory would be
 hers.
 Right, the competition’s gone. Now I just need to wait for her to vacate
 the seat, she thought. Yet the café had no windows and the three wall clocks
 each showed different times. Without customers coming and going, her sense
 of time was becoming frozen.
 Starting to doze off a little, she reeled off the rules for returning to the past.
 The first rule—the only people one may meet while back in the past are
 those who have visited the café. Fumiko’s parting conversation with Goro
 just happened to have taken place in this café.
 The second rule—no matter how hard one tries while back in the past,
 one cannot change the present. In other words, even if Fumiko returned to
 that day one week earlier and pleaded for Goro not to go, the fact that he had
 left for America would not change. She didn’t understand why it should be
 so, and she could feel herself getting upset again thinking about it. But,
 resigned, she accepted it, given it was the rule.
 The third rule—in order to return to the past, you have to sit in that seat
 and that seat alone. This was the seat occupied by the woman in the dress. If
 you try to sit there by force, you get cursed.
 The fourth rule—while back in the past, you must stay in the seat and
 never move from it. In other words, for some reason or other, you couldn’t go
to the bathroom while back in the past.
 The fifth rule—there is a time limit. Now that she thought about it, Fumiko
 still hadn’t been told the details of this one. She had no idea how long or
 short this time was. Fumiko thought about these rules over and over. Her
 thoughts went back and forth. She went from thinking that going back in time
 was going to be rather pointless to thinking that she may as well take charge
 of that conversation and say everything she wanted to—after all, it couldn’t
 hurt, could it, if it was not going to change the present? Fumiko went over
 each rule again and again until finally, slumped on the table, she drifted off to
 sleep.
 The first time Fumiko learned of Goro’s dream future was when she dragged
 him out on their third date. Goro was a gaming geek. He loved those
 MMORPG (massively multi-player online role-playing games), which he
 played on a PC. His uncle was one of the developers of an MMORPG called
 Arm of Magic—a game that was popular around the world. Ever since he
 was a boy, Goro had looked up to his uncle. It was Goro’s dream to join the
 game company his uncle ran: TIP-G. To qualify for the selection exam for
 TIP-G, it was mandatory to have two things: (1) at least five years’
 experience working as a systems engineer in the medical industry, and (2) a
 new unreleased game program that you had personally developed. Human
 lives depend on the reliability of systems in the medical industry and bugs
 are not tolerated. In the online gaming industry, on the other hand, people put
 up with bugs, as it’s possible to apply updates even after the release.
 TIP-G was different. It only recruited candidates with experience in the
 medical industry to ensure that only the best programmers were hired. When
 Goro was telling Fumiko about this, she thought it was a wonderful dream.
 But what she didn’t know was that TIP-G had its headquarters in America.
 On their seventh date, Fumiko was waiting for Goro to arrive at their
 meeting point when a couple of men started talking to her. They were chatting
 her up. They were good-looking, but she was not interested. Men were
 always trying to pick her up and so she had developed a technique for
 dealing with this. Before she could put it to use, Goro arrived and stood
 there, looking uncomfortable. Fumiko rushed up to him, but the two men
reacted, sneered at Goro, and asked her why she was with that dweeb. She
 had no choice but to begin her spiel.
 Goro lowered his head and didn’t say anything. But she faced the two men
 and said (in English), “You guys don’t know his appeal,” (in Russian) “He’s
 brave enough to take on difficult tasks at work,” (in French) “He has the
 mental discipline not to give up,” (in Greek) “He has the skill to render the
 impossible possible,” (in Italian) “I also know he has put in extraordinary
 effort to be able to gain this ability,” (and in Spanish) “His appeal is far
 greater than any other man I know.” Then in Japanese, she said, “If you
 understood what I just said, I wouldn’t mind hanging out with you.”
 Visibly stunned, the two men at first stood motionless.
 Then they looked at each other, and moved on awkwardly.
 Fumiko smiled broadly at Goro. “Naturally, I suppose you understood
 everything I said,” she said, this time in Portuguese.
 Showing his embarrassment, Goro gave a small nod.
 On the tenth date, Goro confessed that he had never been in a relationship
 with a woman before.
 “Oh, so I’m the first woman who you’ve gone out with,” Fumiko said
 happily. It was the first time she had confirmed that they were actually an
 item, and Goro’s eyes widened at the news.
 You could say that night marked the start of their relationship.
 Fumiko had been asleep for a while now. Suddenly, the woman in the dress
 slammed shut the book she was reading and sighed. After pulling out a white
 handkerchief from her handbag, she slowly stood up, and began walking
 toward the bathroom.
 Still asleep, Fumiko hadn’t noticed that she had left. Kazu appeared from
 the back room. She was still wearing her uniform: a white shirt, black bow
 tie, waistcoat, black trousers, and an apron. While she was clearing the table,
 she called out to Fumiko.
 “Madam. Madam.”
 “What? Yes?” Fumiko sat bolt upright in surprise. She blinked her eyes
 and looked around the café until finally she spotted the change.
 The woman in the dress was gone. “Oh!”
 “The seat is free now. Do you wish to sit there?”
“Of course I do!” Fumiko said.
 She got up in a hurry and walked over to the seat that promised to transport
 her to the past. It looked like a normal chair, nothing out of the ordinary about
 it. As she stood there, staring at it with intense desire, her heartbeat
 quickened. Finally, after getting over all the rules and the curse, she had her
 ticket to the past.
 “Okay, now take me back in time by one week.”
 Fumiko took a deep breath. She calmed her racing heart and carefully
 squeezed into the gap between the chair and the table. She had it in her mind
 that she would travel back to a week ago as soon as her bottom landed on the
 seat, so her nervousness and excitement were reaching peak levels. She sat
 down so forcefully, she almost bounced back up again.
 “Okay. Go back one week!” she exclaimed.
 Her heart swelled in anticipation. She looked around the café. As there
 were no windows, there was no way of telling night from day. The three old
 wall clocks with their hands pointing in different directions didn’t tell her the
 time. But something must have changed. She looked desperately around the
 café, searching for a sign that she had gone back. But she couldn’t spot a
 single difference. If she had returned to a week earlier, Goro would be there
 —but he wasn’t anywhere to be seen...
 “I haven’t gone back, have I?” she muttered. Don’t tell me I’ve been a fool
 believing this nonsense about returning to the past.
 Just as she was showing signs of falling apart, Kazu appeared next to her
 carrying a silver tray, upon which was a silver kettle and a white coffee cup.
 “I haven’t gone back yet,” Fumiko blurted out.
 Kazu’s expression was deadpan as always. “There is one more rule,” she
 said coolly.
 Damn! There was another one. It would take more than simply sitting in the
 chair.
 Fumiko was beginning to get fed up. “There are still more rules?” she
 said, yet at the same time, she felt relieved. It meant that going back to the
 past was still in the cards.
 Kazu continued her explanation without showing the slightest interest in
 how Fumiko was feeling. “In a moment, I am going to pour you a cup of
 coffee,” she said as she set a cup in front of Fumiko.
 “Coffee? Why coffee?”
“Your time in the past will begin from the time the coffee is poured...”
 Kazu said, ignoring the question from Fumiko, who was nevertheless
 reassured by the news it would be happening soon. “And you must return
 before the coffee goes cold.”
 Fumiko’s confidence vanished in a flash. “What? That soon?”
 “The last and the most important rule...”
 The talking never ends. Fumiko was itching to go. “Too many rules...” she
 muttered as she gripped the coffee cup placed before her. The vessel was
 quite unremarkable: just a cup which had not yet had coffee poured into it.
 But she thought it felt noticeably cooler than the usual porcelain.
 “Are you listening?” Kazu continued. “When you return to the past, you
 must drink the entire cup before the coffee goes cold.”
 “Um, I don’t actually like coffee that much.”
 Kazu opened her eyes wider and brought her face an inch or so from the
 tip of Fumiko’s nose.
 “This is the one rule you have to absolutely obey,” she said in a low voice.
 “Really?”
 “If you don’t, something terrible will happen to you...”
 “Wh-what?”
 Fumiko felt uneasy. It wasn’t that she hadn’t been expecting something like
 this. Traveling in time meant violating the laws of nature—which obviously
 entails risk. But she couldn’t believe the timing of Kazu’s announcement. A
 sinkhole had just opened up on the final stretch to the finish line. Not that she
 was going to get cold feet—not after she had come this far. She looked
 apprehensively into Kazu’s eyes.
 “What? What will happen?”
 “If you don’t drink all the coffee before it gets cold...”
 “...If I don’t drink the coffee?”
 “It will be your turn to be the ghost sitting in this seat.”
 A bolt of lightning went off inside Fumiko’s head. “Seriously?”
 “The woman who was sitting there just now...”
 “Broke that rule?”
 “Yes. She had gone to meet her dead husband. She must have lost track of
 the time. When she finally noticed, the coffee had gone cold.”
 “...and she became a ghost?”
 “Yes.”
This is riskier than I imagined, Fumiko thought. There were lots of
 annoying rules. To have met a ghost and to have been cursed was
 extraordinary. But now the stakes were even higher.
 Okay, I can return to the past. Yet, I only have until just before my coffee
 goes cold. I have no idea how long it takes for a hot coffee to go cold—it’s
 not going to be that long, though. At least it will be long enough to drink
 my coffee, even if it tastes awful. So, I don’t have to worry about that. But
 say I don’t drink it, and I turn into a ghost—that’s pretty worrying. Now
 let’s assume I am not going to change the present by going back to the
 past, no matter how much I try—there’s no risk there... There are probably
 no pluses, but there are no minuses either.
 Turning into a ghost, on the other hand, is a definite minus.
 Fumiko felt herself wavering. She was assailed by countless worries—the
 most immediate of which was that the coffee that Kazu poured would be
 revolting. She felt she should be able to handle the taste of coffee. But what
 if it is really peppery? What if it is wasabi-flavoured coffee? How could I
 possibly drink an entire cup of that?
 Realizing her thoughts were becoming paranoid, she shook her head to try
 to dispel the wave of anxiety that had come over her.
 “Fine. I just have to drink the coffee before it goes cold, right?”
 “Yes.”
 Her mind was made up. Or, more accurately, a stubborn resolve had taken
 root.
 Kazu just stood there impassively. Fumiko could imagine that if she had
 instead told her, Sorry, I can’t go through with this, her reaction would have
 been the same. She briefly closed her eyes, placed her clenched fists on her
 lap, and drew in a deep breath through her nostrils as if trying to center
 herself. “I’m ready,” she announced. She looked Kazu in the eye.
 “Please pour the coffee.”
 Giving a small nod, Kazu picked up the silver kettle from the tray with her
 right hand. She looked at Fumiko demurely. “Just remember. Drink the coffee
 before it goes cold,” she whispered.
 Kazu began to pour the coffee into the cup. She gave off an air of
 nonchalance, but her fluid and graceful movements made Fumiko feel like she
 was observing an ancient ceremony.
 Just as Fumiko noticed the shimmering steam rising from the coffee that
 filled the cup, everything around the table also began to curl up and become
indistinguishable from the swirling vapor. She began to feel fear and closed
 her eyes. The sensation that she was shimmering and becoming distorted, like
 the rising steam, became even more powerful. She clenched her fists tighter.
 If this continues, I won’t find myself in the present or past; I’ll simply
 vanish in a wisp of smoke. As this anxiety engulfed her, she brought to mind
 the first time she met Goro.
 Fumiko first met Goro two years ago, in the spring. She was twenty-six, three
 years older than him, and stationed at a client company. Goro had been
 posted to the same place, but worked for another company. Fumiko was the
 project director and in charge of all visiting employees.
 Fumiko never held back if she had something critical to say, even if it was
 to a superior. She had even gone as far as to get into arguments with senior
 colleagues. But no one ever spoke critically of her. She was always honest
 and direct, and her willingness to spare no effort in her work was well
 admired. Although Goro was three years her junior, he gave the impression
 of someone in their thirties. To be blunt, he looked much older than he was.
 At first Fumiko had felt junior to him and spoke to him in a polite manner
 accordingly. Furthermore, even though Goro was the youngest in the team, he
 was the most competent. He was a highly skilled engineer who went about
 his work silently, and Fumiko saw she could depend on him.
 The project Fumiko was leading was almost finished. But just before the
 delivery date, a serious bug was discovered. There was an error or flaw in
 the program, and when programming for medical systems, even seemingly
 trivial bugs are serious. Delivery of the system in this state was impossible.
 But finding the cause of a bug is like distilling and removing a drop of ink
 that has fallen in an Olympic swimming pool. Not only were they facing a
 daunting and enormous task, they didn’t have enough time to do it.
 As she was the project director, the responsibility to fulfill the conditions
 of delivery fell on her shoulders. Delivery was due in one week. As the
 general consensus was that it would take at least a month to fix the bug,
 everyone was resigned to missing the deadline. Fumiko thought she would
 have to tender her resignation. Amid this turmoil, Goro disappeared from the
 project worksite without telling anyone, and no one could get hold of him.
 One snide comment led to another and soon everyone suspected that the bug
was his fault. People speculated that he must be feeling so ashamed that he
 couldn’t show his face.
 Of course, there was nothing concrete to suggest that it had been his
 mistake. It was simply that if the project was going to be liable for a big loss,
 it was convenient for it to be someone’s fault. As he was the one who was
 missing, he became the scapegoat, and naturally Fumiko was among those
 who suspected him. But on the fourth day of no contact, he suddenly appeared
 with the news that he had found the bug.
 He hadn’t shaved, and he didn’t smell very nice, but no one even
 considered giving him a hard time for that. Judging by his exhausted face, he
 probably hadn’t even slept. While every other member of the team, including
 Fumiko, had decided it was too difficult and simply given up, Goro had
 succeeded in solving the problem. It was nothing less than a miracle. By
 taking leave without permission and not contacting anyone about it, he had
 violated basic rules that applied to any company employee. Yet he had
 demonstrated a commitment to his work that was greater than anyone else’s,
 and he had succeeded as a programmer where no one else could.
 After Fumiko expressed her heartfelt gratitude and apologized for thinking
 even for an instant that it was his mistake, Goro simply smiled as she bowed
 her head.
 “All right then, perhaps you could buy me a coffee?” he said.
 That was the moment Fumiko fell in love.
 After successfully delivering the system, their new postings were at
 different companies, and she hardly saw him. But she believed in getting
 things done. Whenever she could spare the time, she would take him to
 different places, each time on the pretext of buying him a coffee.
 Goro’s approach to work was obsessive. When he started working toward
 a goal, he wouldn’t see anything else. Fumiko first learned that TIP-G had its
 headquarters in America when she visited his home. He talked so
 enthusiastically about working for TIP-G, and it made her worry. When his
 dream comes true, which will he choose: his dream or me? I mustn’t think
 like that, there’s no comparison. But gosh...
 Then, little by little, it became clearer to her how big a loss it would be.
 She could no longer bring herself to try to ascertain how he felt about her.
 Time passed, and that spring, he finally got an offer to work at TIP-G. His
 dream had come true. Fumiko’s anxiety was justified. Goro had chosen to go
 to America. He had chosen his dream. She had learned this a week ago, at
this café. Now she opened her eyes feeling disorientated, as if waking from a
 dream of her own.
 The sensation that she was a spirit, shimmering and swirling like steam, now
 left her, and she began to regain awareness of her limbs. In a panic, she felt
 her body and face, to make sure it was herself who had appeared. When she
 came to her senses, a man was there before her, watching her strange
 behavior, puzzled.
 It was Goro, unless she was mistaken. Goro, who was meant to be in
 America, was there before her eyes. She really had returned to the past. She
 understood the puzzlement on his face. There was no doubt that she had
 returned to a week ago. The inside of the café was just how she remembered
 it.
 The man called Fusagi had a magazine spread out on the table closest to
 the door. Hirai was sitting at the counter, and Kazu was there. And opposite
 her was Goro, at the same table where they had been. But just one thing was
 wrong—the seat in which Fumiko sat.
 A week ago, she had been sitting facing Goro. Now, however, she was in
 the seat of the woman in the dress. She was still facing Goro, but they were
 now one table apart. He’s so far away. His puzzled look was completely
 justified.
 But unnatural or not, she couldn’t leave her seat. That was one of the rules.
 But what if he asks why I am sitting here? What should I say? Fumiko
 gulped at the thought.
 “Oh gosh, is that the time? Sorry, I have to go.”
 Goro may have looked perplexed, but despite their now unnatural seating
 positions, he had said the exact words she had heard a week ago. This must
 be an unspoken rule when traveling back to the past, she thought.
 “Ah, that’s okay. That’s okay. You don’t have any more time, do you? I
 don’t have much time either.”
 “What?”
 “Sorry.”
 They weren’t on the same page and the conversation wasn’t going
 anywhere. Although she knew the moment she had returned to, Fumiko was
 still confused—it was, after all, the first time she had returned to the past.
To give herself time to settle, she took a sip of the coffee while looking up
 from under her brows to observe Goro’s expression.
 Oh no! The coffee is already lukewarm! It will be cold in no time!
 Fumiko was dismayed. At this temperature, she could already have gulped
 it down. This was an unexpected setback. She scowled at Kazu. She hated
 the way Kazu permanently wore such a deadpan expression. But that was not
 all...
 “Ugh... So bitter.”
 The taste was even bitterer than she had anticipated. It was the bitterest
 coffee she had ever drunk. Goro looked confused at hearing Fumiko’s strange
 utterance.
 Rubbing above his right eyebrow, Goro looked at his watch. He was
 worried about the time. Fumiko understood that. She was in a hurry too.
 “Um... I have something important to say,” she said hurriedly.
 Fumiko shoveled sugar into her cup from the sugar pot placed in front of
 her. Then, after adding a fair amount of milk, she clinked and clanged her cup
 with her spoon with her vigorous stirring.
 “What?” Goro frowned.
 Fumiko wasn’t sure if the frown was because she was adding too much
 sugar, or because he didn’t want to talk about anything important just then.
 “What I mean is... I want to talk about this properly.” Goro looked at his
 watch.
 “Hang on a sec...” Fumiko took a sip of the coffee that she had sweetened.
 She nodded in approval. She hadn’t drunk coffee until she met Goro. It had
 been the pretext of buying him a coffee that led to their dates. The curious
 sight of Fumiko, who hated coffee, frantically adding a tremendous amount of
 sugar and milk earned her a wry smile from Goro.
 “Hey, this is a serious situation, and you’re just smirking at me drinking
 coffee.”
 “No I’m not.”
 “You blatantly are! You can’t deny it, I can tell by looking at your face.”
 Fumiko regretted interrupting the flow of the conversation. She had gone to
 the effort of returning to the past, and now it was going the same way as a
 week earlier. She was again chasing him away with her childish talk.
 Goro got up from his seat, looking agitated. He called to Kazu behind the
 counter.
 “Excuse me... How much, please?” He reached for the bill.
Fumiko knew that if she didn’t do something, Goro would pay and then
 leave. “Wait!”
 “It’s fine, let’s leave it at that.”
 “This isn’t what I came to say.”
 “What?”
 Don’t go.
 “Why didn’t you talk about it with me?”
 I don’t want you to go.
 “Well, that’s...”
 “I know how much your work means to you. I don’t necessarily mind if
 you go to America. I won’t stand in the way.”
 I thought we were going to be together forever. “But, at least...”
 Was it only me thinking that?
 “I wanted you to discuss it with me. You know, it’s pretty despicable just
 deciding without talking about it...”
 I really, truly...
 “That’s just...well, you know...”
 ...loved you.
 “It made me feel forgotten. What I wanted to say was...”
 Not that it’s going to change anything...
 “Well... I just wanted to say that.”
 Fumiko had planned to speak honestly—after all, it wouldn’t change the
 present. But she couldn’t say it. She felt that saying it would be to admit
 defeat. She would have hated herself for saying anything like, Which do you
 choose—work or me? Until she had met Goro, she had always put work first.
 It was the last thing that she wanted to say. She also didn’t want to be talking
 like a parody of a woman, especially to a boyfriend three years her junior—
 she had her pride. She also was perhaps jealous that his career had overtaken
 her own. So she hadn’t spoken honestly. Anyhow...it was too late.
 “Fine then, go... Whatever... It’s not as if anything I say will stop you going
 to America.”
 After saying this, Fumiko gulped down the rest of her coffee. “Whoa.”
 When the cup was empty, the dizziness started again. She was once more
 swallowed up by a wavering and shimmering world.
 She began pondering. What did I come back for, exactly?
 “I never thought that I was the right man for you.”
 She didn’t know why Goro would be saying this.
“When you invited me for coffee,” he continued, “I always said to myself
 that I mustn’t fall for you...”
 “What?”
 “Because I have this...” He ran his fingers through his fringe, which had
 been combed down to cover the right side of his forehead. He revealed the
 large burn scar that spread from his right eyebrow to his right ear. “Before I
 met you, I always thought women found me repulsive, and I couldn’t even
 talk to them.”
 “I...”
 “Even after we had started dating.”
 “It never even bothered me!” shouted Fumiko, but she had become one
 with the vapor and her words didn’t reach him.
 “I thought that it was only a matter of time before you started liking other,
 better-looking guys.”
 Never... How can you think that!
 “I always thought that...”
 Never!
 It was a shock for Fumiko to hear him confess this for the first time. But
 now that he mentioned it, it seemed to make sense. The more she loved him,
 and the more she thought about marriage, the more she could sense some kind
 of invisible barrier.
 When she asked if he loved her, he would nod, but he never said the words
 I love you. When they walked down the street together, Goro would look
 down sometimes, almost apologetically, and stroke his right eyebrow. Goro
 had also noticed that men walking down the street were always gawking at
 her.
 Surely he hadn’t been hung up on that.
 Yet, as she thought that, Fumiko regretted her own thoughts. While she saw
 it as his little hang-up, for him it was a painful, long-standing complex.
 I had no idea he felt that way.
 Fumiko’s awareness was fading. Her body was engulfed in a wavering,
 dizzy sensation. Goro had picked up the bill and was making his way to the
 cash register with his bag in his hand.
 Nothing about the present is going to change. It’s right that it is not
 going to change. He made the right choice. Achieving his dream is worth
 much more to him than I am. I guess I have to give up on Goro. I’ll let him
 go and wish him success with all my heart.
Fumiko was slowly closing her bloodshot eyes when—“Three years,”
 Goro said with his back to her. “Please wait three years. Then I’ll return, I
 promise.”
 It was a faint voice, but the café was small. Although now only vapor,
 Fumiko could clearly hear Goro’s voice.
 “When I return...” Goro touched his right eyebrow out of habit and, with
 his back to Fumiko, said something else that was too muffled to hear.
 “Huh? What?”
 At that moment, Fumiko’s awareness of that place became shimmering
 steam. Just as she was slipping away, Fumiko saw Goro’s face as he glanced
 back before leaving the café. She saw his face for only a split second but he
 was smiling wonderfully, just like the time when he had said, “Perhaps you
 could buy me a coffee?”
 When she came to, Fumiko was sitting in the seat, alone in the café. She felt
 as if she had just had a dream, but the coffee cup in front of her was empty.
 Her mouth still had a sweet taste in it.
 Just then, the woman in the dress returned from the bathroom. When she
 caught Fumiko sitting in her chair, she swooped silently up to her.
 “Move,” she said in an eerily powerful low voice.
 Fumiko started. “I... I’m sorry,” she said, standing up from the chair.
 The dreamlike sensation had still not dissipated. Had she really returned
 to the past?
 Going back in time didn’t change the present, so it was only normal that
 nothing felt different. The aroma of coffee drifted from the kitchen. Fumiko
 turned to look. Kazu had appeared carrying a fresh cup of coffee placed on
 the tray.
 Kazu walked past her as if nothing had happened. When she got to the
 woman in the dress’s table, she cleared Fumiko’s used cup and placed the
 fresh cup of coffee in front of the woman in the dress. The woman gave a
 small nod of acknowledgement and began to read her book.
 Returning to the counter, Kazu asked casually, “How was it?” On hearing
 these words, Fumiko finally felt sure that she had traveled in time. She had
 returned to that day—one week ago. But if she had...
 “So I’m just thinking...”
“Yes?”
 “It doesn’t change the present, right?”
 “That’s right.”
 “But what about the things that happen later?”
 “I’m not sure what you’re saying.”
 “From now on...” Fumiko chose her words. “From now on—what about
 the future?”
 Kazu looked straight at Fumiko. “Well, as the future hasn’t happened yet, I
 guess that’s up to you...” she said, revealing a smile for the first time.
 Fumiko’s eyes lit up.
 Kazu stood in front of the cash register. “Coffee service, plus late-night
 surcharge, that’s four hundred and twenty yen, please,” she said quietly.
 Fumiko gave a big nod and went toward the cash register. She felt light
footed. After paying, Fumiko looked Kazu in the eye.
 “Thank you,” she said and bowed her head low.
 Then, after looking around the entire café, she once again bowed, not to
 anyone in particular, more to the café itself. Then she left without a care.
 clang-dong
 Kazu started putting the money into the cash register, with her deadpan
 expression, as if nothing out of the ordinary had happened. The woman in the
 dress gave a slight smile as she quietly closed the book, a novel titled The
 Lovers.